# Movie-Sentiment-Program
This is the code for a program that uses Natural Language Processing to determine if a movie review is positive or negative.
There were three steps to making this program. The first step was to find a dataset that the neural network model could be trained on. The dataset I chose was an IMBD dataset in a csv file that I found on Kaggle.com. The dataset contained 40,000 long movie reviews (most were over 200 words) and the corresponding sentiment labeled as either 1 (positive review) or 0 (negative review). After I found good training data I downloaded the csv file to a jupyter notebook so I could prepare the data for the neural network model. The attached jupyter notebook labeled data_cleaning shows the data cleaning process. In this notebook I cleaned the movie reviews by creating functions that would remove html, emojis, punctuation, numbers, stopwords, and also performing lemmatization on all of the text. After this I saved the cleaned text to a new csv file named movie_reviews.csv and moved to another jupyter notebook to begin the second step which waas training my neural network model. 
The attached notebook file called setiment_model is where I trained my neural network model. Before I could feed any data into the model the texts first had to be converted to numbers. I first converted all the movie reviews into a list and then I defined the variables vocab, oov, embedding, padding, truncate, and max length. These variables are needed for the process of converting text into numbers that can be fed into a neural network model. After separating training and validation data I then finally tokenized the text (converted each word to a number). Finally a neural network model was trained on the tokenized text data. The neural network had five layers including an embedding layer and a pooling layer. 25 epochs were used to train the model and the validation data showed the model had an accuracy of 0.878. After the model was trained I saved the model and the tokenizer so that they could be used in the last step.
The last step was creating the graphical user interface. The GUI was made with tkinter and can be found in the attached python file named movie_sentiment.py. After creating the basic architecture of the GUI I was able to load the model and tokenizer from the previous notebook and be able to take in a user input, in which a three or more sentence movie review is written, and determine whether this was a positive movie review or a negative movie review. 
